



Contact
8155707021 (Mobile)
igor@anshakov.consulting
www.linkedin.com/in/igor-anshakov (LinkedIn)

Top Skills Consulting Solution Selling
Strategic Negotiations

Languages
Russian (Native or Bilingual)

Igor Anshakov
I help companies build and improve Procurement and Operations
+ Retail + Auto Parts Industry ? Consulting + Business Transformations ? Fortune 500 Leadership Experience ? Short and long term projects
Greater Chicago Area

Summary
+

During my career I have taken a strategic approach to creating value by building and optimizing procurement and merchandising operations. My analytical nature leads me to the point of truth in every organization - data - to create transparency and inform my decisions and development of strategic plans to transform the business.

I cannot do it alone though. I take pride in the teams I have built, developed, and led who are my collaborative partners, they do the hard work to bring my vision to life. I am passionate about
identifying and selecting top talent, mentoring them, and creating an environment that fosters collaboration and personal growth. While I am firm when it comes to performance expectations, I promote 10X more than I let go. The success of my teams is paramount to the business.

In my work with Fortune 500 companies, global manufacturing leaders, and smaller product companies I have developed a deep level of domain expertise, gained a comprehensive understanding of complex industry dynamics, and consistently delivered results beyond expectations. I've managed P&Ls and budgets exceeding
$2B, pioneered industry first retail categories, and transformed procurement operations into mature organizations that drive sustainable growth.

I'm at my best when I'm working collaboratively and cross- functionally to solve complex problems like rationalizing a vendor portfolio to extract costs, optimizing procurement processes to




increase margins, or developing a new category and product line to boost revenue and win market share.

:

? P&L Analysis & Creating a Course of Action
? Creating & Building Strategic Sustainable Growth
? Building & Developing High Performing Teams
? Partner Engagement & Consulting
? Domain Expertise in Retail, Procurement, & Merchandising

:

? P&L Ownership
? Indirect Procurement
? Strategic Sourcing
? Category Development
? Private Label Programs
? Merchandising
? Leadership & Management
? Team Building
? Vendor Management
? Negotiation & Persuasion

:
ianshakov@yahoo.com 815.570.7021



Experience
Anshakov International LLC
Trusted Advisor
March 2023 - Present (2 years 2 months) Greater Chicago Area
Leverages deep business management, procurement, marketing, and supply chain expertise to realize operational efficiencies and cost savings.

Advises companies on Strategic Sourcing, Procurement, Merchandising, Marketing, and Category Development.




Coupa Software
Vice President, Coupa Sourcing Advantage Sales
October 2022 - March 2023 (6 months) Chicagoland, IL
Referred by Chief Procurement Officer at the Business Spend Management software company to lead Procurement Solution category.

? Improved pipeline status visibility for executive team updates and sales team meetings; led sales tracking tool development and used data to manage sales team and executive expectations.

? Enhanced Procurement Solution branding internally and partnered with enterprise sales executives to drive solution sales increasing overall platform capabilities for customers and ROI on total spend.

Advance Auto Parts
Chief Procurement Officer, VP
December 2018 - March 2022 (3 years 4 months) Raleigh, North Carolina, United States
Recruited by Executive Vice President into the $10B Fortune 500 automotive market replacement parts retailer to modernize and rebuild the indirect procurement function. Responsible for $2.8B annual spend on goods and services.

? Transformed indirect procurement into a professional, proactive organization that generated significant YOY P&L improvement and achieved record financial performance in 2021.

? Enhanced financial performance monitoring and decision making; built data dashboard to provide team and executive visibility for key metrics: total cost of goods, cost/category, vendor spend, and year to year variances.

? Defined strategic vision to restructure team and replace underperforming third-party procurement vendor.
? Grew team from 10 to 25 with hiring focused on category experts with industry experience and contacts.

? Rationalized GNFR vendor portfolio to increase buying power and profitability; created company-wide procurement SOPs to ensure adherence.




? Delivered savings by decreasing costs with vendors and improving rebates and payment terms.

? Implemented competitive bid program for vendor contracts to correct for pricing and quality changes over time; updated contracts to include rebate and cost protection clauses to mitigate future supply chain financial shocks.

? Reduced P-Card program spend; eliminated ad hoc vendors, centralized with preferred vendors, updated SOPs, and negotiated annual rebate increase with credit card vendor.

? Negotiated terms for technology initiatives including Spend & SLA Analysis (SpendHQ, Scout), Service Desk (TCS, InfoSys), Warehouse Management (Korber/HighJump), and Merchandising Management (JDA/Blue Yonder).

? Oversaw procurement response to pandemic: secured PPE sourcing to maintain warehouse and store operations; supported pivot to online sales; and influenced shift to remote collaboration platform.

Anshakov International LLC
Trusted Advisor
November 2013 - November 2018 (5 years 1 month) Greater Chicago Area
Launched business consulting firm to serve international clients across industries. Leveraged deep business management, procurement, marketing, and supply chain expertise to realize operational efficiencies and cost savings.

? Advised companies on Strategic Sourcing, Procurement, Merchandising, Marketing, and Category Development.



? Spearheaded category development and strategy for a Global Electronics Manufacturer pioneering a direct to retail product line and distribution model for the company.
? Facilitated product line definition, sourcing strategy, and creation of marketing focused packaging.
? Guided development of business operations to include pricing, warranties, payment terms, sourcing lead time management, and retailer engagement.




? Achieved 11% cost reduction through strategic sourcing for clothing and home accessories retailer; vetted manufacturers, conducted factory visits, selected manufacturer, and negotiated sourcing for 150,000 units.

? Modernized and standardized merchandising operations for European C- Store chain; developed pricing model and standards for visual display, store layout, shelf design, and category display.
? Reduced labor cost 15% for stores through improved inventory management and merchandising.

? Influenced a very meaningful reduction in paper spend for print advertising at Fortune 100 pharmacy retailer.
? Partnered with marketing and procurement to conduct advertising ROI analysis by market and store; reduced or eliminated paper advertising in selected markets and diversified into digital marketing.
? Centralized to single paper vendor and selected alternative paper type to generate additional savings.

Hard Core Brands International, LLC
Chief Merchandising Officer
August 2012 - September 2013 (1 year 2 months) Ottawa IL
Referred to Owner of the outdoor products company to optimize product operations with a growth focus.

? Analyzed P&L and conducted competitive SWOT analysis to determine opportunities for improvement and growth across the business; brought a corporate business model to a smaller company.

? Defined a product diversification strategy increasing product SKUs by 15X; identified and vetted overseas factories for quality and labor compliance with international standards; improved payment terms by 30%.

OfficeMax
Vice President Of Merchandising
October 2003 - July 2012 (8 years 10 months) Naperville, Illinois, United States
Recruited to join the $7B Fortune 500 office supplies retailer with 900+ stores as a technology, print, and services Category Leader; advanced to VP of




Merchandising with full P&L responsibility for $2.5B revenue business within 5 years.

? Drove profitability growth and captured market share within dynamic and competitive ink and toner business; increased margins, turns, and decreased out-of-stocks.

? Spearheaded private label ink and toner program development with hundreds of SKUs.

? Led store layout and planogram redesign for ink/toner and technology categories supporting business transition from office supplies to professional level printing, technology hardware, and services.

? Generated savings through consulting partnerships with Boston Consulting Group (Cost of Goods Project) and Oliver Wyman (Pricing & Category Management Project).

? Created incremental opportunities by introducing gift cards, FedEx program, shredding services, and Managed Print Solution.

? Grew technology hardware business in competitive market; controlled inventory allocations and markdowns, improved and reduced out-of-stocks.

? Achieved high scores in multiple Employee Surveys as an effective leader and manager.

Circuit City Stores National Buyer 1994 - 2003 (9 years)
Richmond, Virginia, United States
Promoted from in-store Sales Manager to Corporate at the major US retailer with 567 stores; advanced though Buyer roles in Procurement to lead P&L for
$500M TV/DVD and $650M camcorder and imaging accessories businesses.

? Built DVD and digital camcorder program, trained sales teams on product differentiators, and successfully championed online sales channel proving customer appetite for high-ticket online purchases.




? Reduced price overrides 50% in low-price guarantee and price match program by conducting marketing and competitive analysis and increasing sales staff product knowledge to differentiate between similar products.

? Delivered double digits annual increase in comparable store sales, consistent increase in category market share, and 50% improvement in category profitability through merchandising, advertising, and private label strategies.



Education
University of Wisconsin-River Falls
Bachelor of Science - BS · (1992 - 1994)

University of Notre Dame - Mendoza College of Business
Executive education

The University of Chicago - Booth School of Business
Executive education


